i Richard from digital foundry here with
a look at titan x performance using our
yardstick for gameplay frame rate
testing Crysis 3 so there's a big
distinction between a pure benchmark run
and what we'd consider the optimal
gameplay experience when benchmarking we
operate with vsync unlocked in order to
run the GPU at its maximum possible
speed but in a gameplay frame rate test
what we want is for the GPU to match
resolution and refresh rate with the
monitor for the smoothest possible
experience and that involves running
with vsync firmly enabled in our usual
Crysis 3 gameplay tests we aim for 1080p
resolution and a 60 Hertz refresh since
this is by far the most common display
setup for gamers however doing so with
Titan X leaves the GPU significantly
underutilized so we've pushed things to
the next level here by targeting a 2560
by 1440 60 FPS experience on what
remains one of the most punishing PC
titles on the market here the Titan X is
paired with a core i7 4790k clocks at
4.6 gigahertz and it takes on two
previous holders of the coveted fastest
single GPU on the planet accolade AMD's
Radeon r9 290x and Nvidia's GTX 980 in
both cases we're using a reference card
but to ensure that the 290 X doesn't
fought or when it hits max temperatures
we're running the fan at 70% speed it
sounds like we're using a mini vacuum
cleaner in the office but temperatures
don't exceed 77 Celsius meaning that
performance will be equivalent to a card
using a decent cooler settings wise
we're operating with very high textures
on the very high quality preset pretty
much as far as Crysis 3 will go for
anti-aliasing we're sticking with a
tried and tested SMA 82 X not the
highest setting but definitely the best
bang for the buck out to various options
available so as you can see there's
quite a difference in the performance of
three cards being tested here in terms
of metrics average frame rates are
pretty much meaningless when you're
enforcing a 60 FPS cat what counts to
the lowest recorded frame rates and the
amount of time the system fails to hit
the target refresh so let's talk lowest
frame rates first gtx 980 and r9 290x
were pretty much equal here at third
1 FPS and 32 FPS respectively the Nvidia
card suffering for an unfortunate
stutter at the 3 minute 15 mark that
takes it slightly below its AMD
competitor a scenario that's definitely
against the overall run of play as you
can see however the Titan X moves far
ahead at a competition here with a 44
FPS minimum frame late at the 17 second
point right at the beginning of the
video however it's the variance from the
target 60 FPS that offers the most
enlightening comparison Titan X fails to
sustain 1440p at 60 Hertz for just 2.56
percent of the entire duration of this
video versus the more substantial 20
point 6 6 percent of the GTX 980 and a
twenty nine point eight percent of the
r9 290x that's a significant
differential that demonstrates pretty
conclusively that Titan X offers a
markedly improved gameplay experience on
these extreme settings anyway we hope
you enjoy this video and alternative
takes to the norm on gameplay framerate
testing if you're interested in the war
performance of all these cards look
elsewhere on the digital foundry channel
where we have four benchmark runs across
nine modern games across 1080p 1440p and
4k resolutions in the meantime thanks
for watching like this video if you
liked it press that dislike button if
you didn't and consider a subscription
if you want to see more that's all for
now see you soon
cycle this train is full highly
explosive material yep
this is your plan yeah
come on you bastards
you